            HEARING ON COMPLIANCE WITH COMMITTEE OVERSIGHT

======================================================================

                               HEARING
                              BEFORE THE
    SUBCOMMITTEE ON RESPONSIVENESS AND ACCOUNTABILITY TO OVERSIGHT
                                OF THE
                      COMMITTEE ON THE JUDICIARY
                    CONGRESS OF THE UNITED STATES
                    118th CONGRESS, FIRST SESSION

                              2023-11-30

                          Serial No. 118-55

    The Subcommittee met, pursuant to notice, Hon. Ben Cline [Chair of
the Subcommittee] presiding.
    Present: Representatives Cline, Ivey, Lee, Moran, Swalwell, Van
Drew.

    Mr. Cline. All right. All right, the subcommittee will come to
order. Without objection, the chair is authorized to declare a recess
at any time. We welcome everyone to this hearing of the Subcommittee
on Responsiveness and Accountability to Oversight, and, as we do in
this committee, we will begin with the pledge. So if everybody would
rise and face the flag. I pledge allegiance to the flag of the United
States of America, and to the Republic for which it stands, one nation
under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all. Thank you.
Want to thank our witnesses for appearing and I want to also thank
Ranking Member Swalwell and Member Lee for being here as well. Today,
the subcommittee is going to continue our efforts to get answers
directly from representatives from the Federal Bureau of
Investigation, the Department of State, and the Federal Trade
Commission. We look forward today to engaging with the witnesses that
have appeared to discuss the productions we've received to date and
the status of our other outstanding requests, as well as the agencies'
compliance with the committee's subpoenas. Since the beginning of the
Biden administration, the committee has made numerous requests for
information and documents concerning the operations and actions of the
Federal Bureau of Investigation. The committee has also issued various
subpoenas to the FBI. To date, the FBI has yet to fully comply with
the committee's subpoenas, as well as certain requests for information
and documents. For example, on August 17th, 2023, Chairman Jordan
issued subpoenas to Attorney General Garland and Director Wray
regarding coercion by the federal government to have companies and
groups engage in content moderation. To date, the responses to these
subpoenas have been deficient and overdue. While the FBI has produced
some documents to the committee and made some documents available for
review, many are publicly available, duplicative, non-responsive, or
significantly and substantively redacted. Relatedly, on April 28th,
2023, Chairman Jordan issued a subpoena to Global Engagement Center
Special Envoy Rubin to investigate the nature and extent of the GEC's
interactions with companies and groups over content moderation. GEC's
response to date, less than 1,500 non-publicly available pages of
documents, which are extremely limited in scope, has been wholly
incomplete and inadequate. Since the State Department last testified
before this subcommittee in July of this year, only 290 additional
pages have been produced. This is despite the State Department
representatives proffering that production would be in the tens of
thousands of pages at the least, as virtually everything that GEC does
is related to content moderation on social media. It's vital that
these agencies produce all relevant documents that the subpoena
compels them to produce so that the committee has the opportunity to
determine how the FBI, the State Department, and other actors with
which the agencies were communicating with labeled speech
misinformation, disinformation, or malinformation to effectuate its
takedown from platforms. It's also important for the committee to
obtain these documents in order to ascertain the nature of the
relationship between the Biden administration and social media
companies. Additionally, the FBI has been deficient in responding to
the committee on several other important oversight matters. For
example, on March 9th, 2022, the committee requested a briefing on the
status of the FBI's investigation into the pipe bombs placed at the
RNC and DNC headquarters on January 6th, 2021. After receiving a non-
substantive response from the FBI, the committee sent a letter
reiterating its request for a briefing on May 24th of this year and
June 14th. The committee has also requested documents and information
related to the pipe bomb investigation. While we look forward to the
FBI providing the committee with the requested briefing in the coming
weeks, we still await the requested documents and information.
Additionally, the committee has sent letters to the FBI requesting
documents and information related to its confidential human source
program and information regarding former Special Agent in Charge
Charles McGonigal and the overt politicization of the FBI. To date,
the FBI has not responded to the committee's requests. We are also
here to hold the FTC accountable. Since Biden appointee Lina Khan has
began chairing the FTC in June of 2021, she has advanced a radical
agenda, upset the rule of law in ways that have hurt the American
people, mismanaged agency career staff, and sought to act in ways
inconsistent with what the FTC's legal authorities permit. Given our
oversight responsibilities, committee Republicans have sent the agency
16 letters containing numerous requests. The committee has also issued
a subpoena to the FTC. Committee requests have covered a range of
topics, such as Chair Khan's abandonment of longstanding bipartisan
antitrust standards, or the rapid decline in FTC career staff morale
and record staff departures from the FTC. Likewise, in April, over
seven months ago, the committee subpoenaed Chair Khan for documents
based on the Judiciary Committee and the Select Subcommittee on the
Weaponization of the Federal Government's report about how the FTC
harassed Twitter in the wake of Elon Musk's purchase of the company.
The FTC has fallen far short in its responses to congressional
oversight. The agency has routinely failed to provide status updates
requested about document productions. Even where the FTC has made an
effort to produce requested documents, its responses have been
inadequate or raised new questions. For example, the FTC has produced
thousands of pages of publicly available documents, hundreds of pages
of non-substantive schedules, but is withholding key materials from
the committee with no sound basis. And the FTC has produced only one
publicly available court filing in response to the committee's April
12th subpoena. In defiance of the subpoena, the agency is withholding
everything else. In her interactions with the committee, Chair Khan
has taken it upon herself to question the legitimacy of and seek to
block congressional oversight. Congress must make important decisions
about funding the FTC and the scope of the FTC's authority. The FTC's
obstructionist approach to the committee's oversight can and should be
a factor in

    [Convened at 18:20 into the recording: The subcommittee will come
to order.]

    Mr. Swalwell. And it's for the same reason that the other 92
witnesses have never come in. It is all to just feed the beast, to
keep Donald Trump happy. So, welcome to a post-Thanksgiving meal to
feed Donald Trump. And I introduce to you the chefs, led by top chef
Jim Jordan and chef boy McCarthy who went down to Mar-a-Lago, in their
effort to keep Donald Trump happy. I yield back.

    Mr. Cline. Without objection, all other opening statements will be
included in the record. We'll now introduce today's witnesses.
Christopher Dunham is the Acting Assistant Director for the Office of
Congressional Relations at the FBI. In that role, he leads the office
that serves as the Bureau's primary liaison to Congress. Ms. Jeanne
Bumpus is the Director of the Office of Congressional Relations at the
Federal Trade Commission. Her office works with members of Congress
and their staffs to provide information on the Commission's
activities, and advance the interests of the Commission in Congress.
And the Honorable Naz Durakoğlu. Ms. Durakoğlu is the Assistant
Secretary of State for the Bureau of Legislative Affairs. She was
confirmed by the Senate on June 16th, 2022. The Bureau of Legislative
Affairs coordinates all legislative activity for the State Department,
and is the primary intermediary to Congress. We welcome our witnesses,
and thank them for appearing today. We'll begin by swearing you in.
So, please rise and r- raise your right hand. Do you swear or affirm,
under penalty of perjury, that the testimony you're about to give is
true and correct, to the best of your knowledge, information, and
belief, so help you God? Let the record reflect that the witnesses
have answered in the affirmative. Please know that your written
testimony will be entered into the record in its entirety.
Accordingly, we ask that you summarize your testimony in 5 minutes.
The microphone in front of you has a clock and a series of lights.
When the lights turn yellow, you should begin to conclude your
remarks; when the light turns red, your time has expired. Please
remember to turn on the mics. Mr. Dunham, you may begin.

    Mr. Dunham. Thank you. Good afternoon, Chairman Cline, Ranking
Member Swalwell, distinguished members of the subcommittee. I
appreciate the opportunity to come before you again to describe the
FBI's continued efforts to respond to the committee's oversight
requests. I'm the Acting Assistant Director of the FBI's Office of
Congressional Affairs. I'm here again voluntarily to answer your
questions. Unlike others who have come before this subcommittee, I'm
not a political appointee, nor am I an attorney. I spent the entirety
of my professional government life in civil service in support of the
FBI's mission. I agreed to serve as the Acting Assistant Director in
an acting capacity late last year. In this role, I have led a team of
agents and professional staff who are dedicated to working with
Congress on all manner of legislative, policy, and oversight issues.
As long as I have served in this role, I've been committed to working
in good faith with all members of this subcommittee and the full
Judiciary Committee. The FBI recognizes the important role of
congressional oversight. We appreciate that oversight is a critical
underpinning of the legislative process, and we recognize that it can
shed valuable light on the FBI's op- operations and stewardship of
taxpayer dollars. By virtue of the FBI's dual law enforcement and
intelligence responsibilities, we work closely with eight
congressional committees of jurisdiction, including both House and
Senate committees who oversee the intelligence community, and
committees like this one who oversee the Justice Department. In every
instance, we strive to provide Congress with information to support
its legislative needs without compromising our law enforcement and
national security efforts, including our investigative and
prosecutorial responsibilities. The FBI must also, now more than ever,
consider the privacy and safety interests implicated in revealing the
identities of our dedicated line agents and personnel. With these
considerations in mind, we're committed to continuing to accommodate
the committee's oversight interests. We understand the purview of this
subcommittee is to oversee the responsiveness of agencies to the full
committee's oversight requests. In this Congress so far, the committee
has identified well over 50 informational requests for the FBI across
17 different topics, in addition to requests for dozens of transcribed
interviews. Since January, the FBI has provided nearly 30 responses to
this committee, including 22 document productions. And more
specifically, since I was here before you in March, the FBI has
produced nearly 2,000 pages of documents and provided dozens of
briefings for committee members and staff, including at our Quantico
and Redstone facilities. During that time, we have also provided 14
FBI witnesses from multiple di- FBI divisions and from literally
across the country who have come before this committee to sit for
extensive questioning and transcribed interviews covering a multitude
of topics. Today, we remain engaged with committee staff, and the FBI
is actively responding to your requests for documents and information,
including working to supplement our ongoing productions as we identify
additional responsive documents. We remain optimistic that by working
cooperatively we will be able to satisfy the committee's legislative
needs while also safeguarding the independence, integrity, and
infectiveness of our vital law enforcement and intelligence efforts.
This, of course, is at the core of the FBI's mission. To protect the
American people and uphold the Constitution. I'm happy to answer your
questions.

    Mr. Cline. Thank you, Mr. Dunham. Ms. Bumpus, you may begin.

    Mr. Bumpus. Chairman Cline, Ranking Member Swalwell, and
distinguished members of the subcommittee, I'm Jeanne Bumpus, the
Director of the Office of Congressional Relations at the FTC. Thanks
for the opportunity to address the Commission's responses to requests
from the Committee in the of the Judiciary since the beginning of the
118th Congress. The FTC is the only federal agency with the broad
mission of of both protecting consumers and maintaining competition in
most sectors of the economy. Its jurisdiction includes privacy and
data security, consumer fraud, and anticompetitive mergers and conduct
in the pharmaceutical, defense, technology, hospital, retail food, and
other sectors that affect every American every day. The FTC's 1200
public servants work tirelessly to meet this broad and critical
mission. The Commission is committed to accommodating the committee's
requests for information consistent with our obligation to safeguard
the independence, integrity, and effectiveness of our vital work.
Since I last testified before the subcommittee in March, the
Commission has established a clear responsiveness to the House
Judiciary Committee's wide range and unprecedented number of oversight
requests. The Commission has received 15 letters with 76 specific
requests from the Judiciary Committee, and we've responded with 29
letters, 20 productions, five transcribed interviews, a non-public
briefing, hearing testimony, and over 8,500 pages of documents. These
are just some of the House oversight requests that the Commission is
currently responding to. In this calendar year, the FTC has received a
total of 25 letters with 133 specific requests from House committees,
and we've responded with 46 letters, 33 productions, and over 12,000
pages of documents. These responses are in addition to providing
information to Congress as a regular part of what we do every day. The
FTC works with members and committees to provide them with expert,
thoughtful, and timely information irrespective of party or position.
The FTC devotes significant time and resources to supporting
Congress's needs for information, working with our bureaus and offices
across the agency to respond to requests. Commission officials and
subject-matter experts are in constant communication with members and
congressional staff. In this year alone, the FTC has provided
technical assistance on over 100 proposed bills, responded to over 80
congressional letters, provided about 15 non-public and over 80 public
briefings about our programs and operations, and assisted with
constituent services and outreach efforts aimed at helping consumers
avoid fraud. The Commission is eager to continue to share our work and
collaborate with Congress to improve and enhance our service to the
American people. In conclusion, the FTC recognizes that congressional
oversight is an important part of our system of government. We remain
committed to working with Congress and with this committee in good
faith. Thank you.

    Mr. Cline. Thank you, Ms. Bumpus. Ms. Durakoglu, you may begin.

    Mr. Darakoglu. Thank you. Chairman Cline, Ranking Member Swalwell,
distinguished members of this subcommittee, it's a pleasure to appear
before you again today. Last I appeared before this subcommittee, I
cited our congressional engagement from 2022 and the beginning of
2023. So far in the 118th Congress, the State Department's Bureau of
Legislative Affairs, also known as H, is lined up for another record-
breaking year of congressional engagement. Since January, H has
supported 88 congressional hearings, more than 2,900 briefings and
meetings with members and staff, responded to more than 1,000 letters
from Congress, produced 474 reports to Congress, and facilitated 512
CODELs and STAFFDELs around the world. Regarding our commitment to
oversight, the State Department is currently responding to 29 open and
wide-ranging investigations from six separate House committees. When I
testified in July, the department had provided more than 16,000 pages
of documents across committees. We are now up to over 25,500 pages. In
response to this committee's inquiry into the Global Engagement
Center, or GEC, we have produced more than 1,900 pages of documents,
up from 1,200 in July. The GEC's offer to brief members and staff of
this subcommittee still stands, and we welcome the opportunity to
further engage with you on the GEC's day-to-day work in furtherance of
our national security. GEC principals have also testified before other
House committees in a demonstration of the department's responsiveness
and cooperation with oversight inquiries. As noted in my previous
testimony, the GEC focuses on the international information space and
works to identify, analyze, and expose harmful foreign disinformation
and propaganda emanating from places like Tehran, Moscow, and Beijing.
The GEC does not focus on the domestic information space. As we
continue to make productions and show the breath and depth of the
GEC's work abroad, we ask that Congress repeal the termination clause
included in the GEC's mandate so that the U.S. government can continue
this important effort beyond 2024. In addition to the GEC request, the
department has provided Chairman Jordan and this subcommittee with all
available information on three specific visa cases in response to
requests from the committee. Should there be additional cases of
interest, we look forward to reviewing and responding to those
requests. Secretary Blinken and the department's leadership maintain
that Congress is a partner in foreign policy, and we remain committed
to working with you in good faith on your oversight priorities. Across
all congressional oversight inquiries, career department employees
have been pulled off their day-to-day missions to support the document
production and review process. The The department has also hired more
oversight staff to assist with the growing number of requests. As we
work to respond to more than two dozen requests, I would be remiss if
I did not share the department's concern over the House's proposed 14%
cut to the State Department and Foreign Operations budget. This
drastic cut would not only hinder the department's ability to respond
to congressional oversight in a timely manner, but would also endanger
the department's national security objectives, particularly as the
United States faces new and enduring challenges with the People's
Republic of China, in the Middle East and Israel, Ukraine, and beyond.
Of course, not passing the administration's full supplemental request
touching on these priorities would have a similar negative effect.
Again, I thank the subcommittee for allowing me the opportunity to
before to appear before you again, and I look forward to your
questions.

    Mr. Cline. Thank you, Ms. Durakoglu. Let me begin with a question
for Mr. Dunham. Um, let me just uh say we will now proceed under the
5-minute rule with questions, anticipate we'll have two rounds of
questions today. Mr. Dunham, understanding the FBI's role in
censorship on social media is a crucial part of the committee's
investigation into the apparent collusion between the federal
government and technology and social media companies. On April 18th,
2023, the committee requested documents and information in furtherance
of its investigation by the FBI. However, the FBI did not make its
first production until June 21st, 2023, over a month after the
response to the committee's April 18th, 2023 request was due. The
entirety of the first production was the publicly available, 386-page
deposition transcript of FBI Special Agent Elvis Chan in Missouri v.
Biden. Why did it take the department over a month to make this
production of one publicly available document?

    Mr. Dunham. Mr. Chairman, we're we're working through the requests
uh that we received in April. We've made four productions already of
600 pages of documents. We've also been providing transcribed
interviews to the committee, which are conversations with the staff
indicated that that was a committee priority. So, we had three senior
executives who came before this committee for day-long transcribed
interviews to talk about this very subject. Um, and we have more more
information in the pipeline that's that's that's that's forthcoming.
Uh, and I understand the the committee's concerns with with redactions
on the documents. We've had so some some discussions with committee
staff already uh to to uh address those concerns. I think our most
recent production uh provided more limited redactions. That's my goal
is to provide as limited redactions as possible on our productions to
the committee.

    Mr. Cline. Because you can't understand it, can you, the document?

    Mr. Dunham. We are

    Mr. Cline. So tell me, why are employees at Twitter and Facebook,
many of whom do not have a clearance of any kind, able to receive
these communications unredacted, but members of Congress are not?

    Mr. Dunham. I'd just go back to what I said previously that we're
we're bound by Department of Justice and executive branch uh policies
that that dictate how we provide information to Congress, and there
are certain areas where we have to be more considerate and provide
redactions. But those those conversations that we have with staff to
talk about these redactions are extremely helpful for us in coming to
an accommodation to provide more information, so I appreciate that.

    Mr. Cline. Well, and and accommodation with the requests actually
uh helps even more. So, earlier this week, committee staff prioritized
a list of documents to be produced in unredacted form to the committee
by December 8th. You may recall that conversation that just happened
earlier this week. Mr. Dunham, can you commit to producing these
documents in unredacted form to the committee by that deadline?

    Mr. Dunham. We are working through those requests now. We just got
them a couple days ago, and and uh we'll work uh to provide them as
soon as possible.

    Mr. Cline. Are you aware that our subpoena requires the production
of a privilege log if the FBI places redactions on certain documents?

    Mr. Dunham. I believe uh I've read that in one of the subpoenas,
correct.

    Mr. Cline. All right. When can the committee expect that privilege
log?

    Mr. Dunham. Uh I don't have a response for you today, but I'll
take that back and see what we can provide.

    Mr. Cline. All right. You'd agree that the committee subpoena
compels the production of certain categories of documents, correct?

    Mr. Dunham. I believe so.

    Mr. Cline. Documents and communications between or among the FBI
and the executive branch, correct?

    Mr. Dunham. I believe so.

    Mr. Cline. All right. Why have no documents or communications with
the White House or other federal agencies been produced?

    Mr. Dunham. We're working through the productions. Like I said,
we've provided four productions already, over 600 pages of documents.
We did prioritize the transcribed interviews, which we had three
executives come up to spend the full day with the committee to talk
about these issues, and to answer your questions.

    Mr. Cline. Can you commit to producing documents responsive to
this category by December 14th?

    Mr. Dunham. I commit that we will provide information as soon as
possible.

    Mr. Cline. All right. The Ranking Member is recognized for 5
minutes.

    Mr. Swalwell. Great. Uh thank you, Chairman. Uh Mr. Dunham,
following subpoenas you've received from the Judiciary Committee
Republicans, didn't you offer to meet and confer with Judiciary
Republicans on multiple occasions?

    Mr. Dunham. I my staff has had uh several uh offers to meet and
several conversations with staff.

    Mr. Swalwell. And today you are appearing voluntarily to this
hearing?

    Mr. Dunham. Correct.

    Mr. Swalwell. And this is the second time appearing voluntarily
before this hearing is that this committee, is that right?

    Mr. Dunham. That's correct.

    Mr. Swalwell. Has the FBI provided committee Republicans with over
1700 pages of documents?

    Mr. Dunham. It's actually over 2500 pages.

    Mr. Cline. Gentleman's time has expired.

    Mr. Ivey. allow us to participate in the meetings and get the
emails that you send. And when they come up here to give full days of
meetings to try and figure out this uh how to comply with the
subpoenas, please let us know so we can participate.

    Mr. Cline. I'd be happy to take that under advisement. I would
also state I think they know how to comply. The gentleman from Texas
is recognized.

    Mr. Moran. Uh thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ms. Bumpus, I want to talk
to you briefly about some very specific requests to the FTC. On March
9th, 2023, a number of House Judiciary Committee members, including
myself, uh Ms. Lee, Mr. Van Drew, uh wrote the FTC concerning its ill-
advised current approaches to mergers and acquisitions. And in that
letter, the committee requested related documents and information.
Later, Chairman uh Jordan and Chairman Massie reiterated these
requests on April the April 5, 2023. That was over seven months ago.
There's still several requests, in particular items number four and
seven, which will be the topic of my uh questions to you today. As a
refresher, item number four is all documents and communications
referring to or relating to the decision to withdraw the Trump
administration's 2020 vertical merger guidelines. And then item number
seven is all documents and communications relating to the FTC's policy
concerning early terminations. Those are the two primary uh scopes of
of what I want to ask you about. We uh we understand that the FTC is
not completed its productions of those uh requests. What's the status
of the FTC's document collection and review of those two requests in
particular?

    Mr. Bumpus. Congressman, um as you're aware, we've made four
productions and have produced over 1300 pages of documents so far. We
are continuing to review documents and produce them on a rolling
basis.

    Mr. Moran. On those two specific requests, can you provide me any
specific update as to the review and the production of those documents
that are responsive?

    Mr. Bumpus. I cannot, but as you know, our staff are in regular
contact with staff on the committee and would be happy to engage with
you on that.

    Mr. Moran. All right. Well, what's the reason why you can't
provide me with an update today? The I know that that's the topic of
some discussion that's that's been had before today's hearing. So, I
would expect that you would have been prepared to tell me when those
documents could be produced or how much they're how many documents are
left to review. Can you tell me any of that information?

    Mr. Bumpus. Uh regrettably, I cannot. But I'm happy to take that
back, take your concerns and your priorities back and um and we will
continue to work with the committee.

    Mr. Moran. So, how come you weren't prepared to answer that
question today? It seems like a very basic question, and frankly, a
reasonable question. I'm supposed to be asking you about uh document
production. Those are two uh requests that have been made and
reiterated, not just by the committee, but by the chairman. You've
been working on them for seven months. How come you can't tell me the
status of that production?

    Mr. Bumpus. I can tell you that we are continuing to review
documents. Uh we will continue to produce them on a rolling basis. And
we are happy to continue our regular contact with staff members on the
Judiciary Committee.

    Mr. Moran. On on those two specific requests, uh do you know if
there are actual documents that are being reviewed internally, uh
potentially responsive to those requests?

    Mr. Bumpus. I I don't know.

    Mr. Moran. Do you know who would know at the FTC?

    Mr. Bumpus. I'm happy to take that back. Again, I I know your
staff are in regular contact with staff at the FTC about all of the
productions.

    Mr. Moran. With respect to those two requests, numbers uh four and
seven, uh from that March 9th, 2023 letter, do you know if any email
notification or other steps have been taken to notify individuals at
the FTC to preserve materials that may be potentially relevant and
responsive?

    Mr. Bumpus. Yes, my understanding is that notices have gone out to
custodians, and documents have been collected and placed in a central
repository.

    Mr. Moran. Who is the custodian of that central repository?

    Mr. Bumpus. Uh there are many people with access to that central
repository who deposit and review documents.

    Mr. Moran. Who would be considered the ultimate custodian of those
records?

    Mr. Bumpus. I'm not able to provide that information today, but
we're happy to continue talking to your staff.

    Mr. Moran. I'm I'm still curious why you can't tell me who the
custodian of those records are. You've been at the department for 17
years. At in the Office of Congressional Relations, I would suspect
you would know who the custodian of records is for this particular
production request.

    Mr. Bumpus. I I don't.

    Mr. Moran. Can you find out?

    Mr. Bumpus. I am happy to take your request back and And, and I, I
know your staff again talks regularly to our staff.

    Mr. Moran. Uh, my, my question wasn't will you find out, my
question was can you find out? Are you able to find out who the
custodian of those records are?

    Mr. Bumpus. I don't know that there is a single custodian of those
records. Like I said, um, staff from across the agency have been
collecting records and place them in, and, and placing them into the
repository for, for review.

    Mr. Moran. Is it a large number of staff or just a limited number
of staff that is the custodian or has access to that, uh, depository?

    Mr. Bumpus. I, I don't know the numbers, I'm happy to take that
back.

    Mr. Moran. Would you say it's more than 50?

    Mr. Bumpus. I, I, I don't know.

    Mr. Moran. Uh, is there anything you can tell me about that
document production today?

    Mr. Bumpus. Nothing more than I've already said.

    Mr. Moran. My request would be in the next 17 seconds before we
let you go or before I let you go is, um, next time you come, uh,
those are really important questions. I'll probably ask you the
similar questions next time. I'd like to know who's in charge, the
custodian of records. I'd also like to know as it relates to items
that have not been produced, what the status of that production is.
That's a useful information that we need as the committee to make
decisions on this, uh, on this side of the dais, and it would be
helpful in, uh, reaching a conclusion as to our document requests, so
I would make that request of you. Thank you. I yield back.

    Mr. Bumpus. Thank you.

    Mr. Cline. Gentlelady from Florida is recognized for 5 minutes.

    Ms. Lee. Thank you, Mr. Chairman, and I'll, I'll start here today.
Uh, some of our colleagues today have questioned why we have these
hearings, why we've continued to have these hearings, why we've done
this more than once. And I think in the line of question and answer
that we just heard, we were getting the answer to that loud and clear.
And it's simple, because we have been requesting documents, and
subpoenaing documents, and requesting information, and we still don't
have it. If the documents responsive to the subpoenas had been
provided, if the information responsive to the requests had been
provided, we wouldn't be here. This hearing is only necessary because
we do not have the responsive documents and information that have been
requested of these agencies. I would like to start here with Mrs., or
Ms. Naz Durakoglu. On March 22nd, 2023, the Committee wrote to GEC
Special Envoy Rubin requesting documents and information related to
the nature and extent of the agency's interaction with technology
companies and third-party groups over content moderation and the
censorship of speech on social media and other platforms. Uh, this
information was subsequently subpoenaed on May 22nd, 2023, and also
the subject of discussion at a prior hearing of this subcommittee in
July. To date, the State Department's production has been incomplete.
The documents produced are limited to the work that the GEC has done
to identify foreign miss- and disinformation promoted by various news
outlets and platforms, as well as coordination with third-party fact
checkers, uh, but we have less than 1,800 pages of non-publicly
available documents, uh, much of which is not wholly related to the
underlying requests. So I'd like to start there. Uh, the Committee
subpoena compels the production of multiple categories of documents,
for example, the production of certain documents and communications
between the GEC and third-party entities, such as the Stanford
University's Election Integrity Partnership, correct? Okay. Uh, we
don't have any documents yet related to, or communications with, the
EIP or Election Integrity Partnership, uh, and the failure to produce
those communications is particularly of interest to the Committee.
There are only a few known custodians, the time frame is known, and,
uh, there shouldn't be any concern about privilege because this
relates to a third-party entity. You noted in your opening testimony
that the focus really was on, uh, foreign actors and not domestic, uh,
which of course is one of the key issues that we're trying to get to
the bottom of, is what was the nature of this relationship and the
why? So it would really add a lot of transparency to one of the core
questions. So could you tell me, um, why there hasn't been more
information produced on that subject, and what timeline could we
expect additional compliance there?

    Mr. Darakoglu. Thank you, Congresswoman. Um, I will note that I
personally review every tranche this subcommittee receives, and seven
tranches have been produced, so I can tell you several of those
tranches did have information with third-party entities, cuz I have
seen them myself. In terms of Stanford and others, I'm happy to get
back to you, but just to say we have been producing responsive
documents, and 1,900 pages of such have been provided to this
committee. You referenced 1,800 pages that are not public. Just to
point out, 1,800 out of the 1,900 are not public, so we are, we are
completely responsive. But I, on Stanford in particular, I'm happy to
get back and see what we have.

    Ms. Lee. Is it a reasonable goal for you all to provide those
documents to us, those responsive documents by December 14th?

    Mr. Darakoglu. So I have to say, as the Assistant Secretary for
Legislative Affairs, it is my responsibility to be responsive to you
all, and if I closed out this search at any point without knowing the
full universe, that would not be adhering to my responsibility to be
responsive, so I have to say we're going to continue searching, we're
going to continue providing documents to you all on a rolling basis,
and I do not want to put a timeline on it because we're going to
continue providing what we see as we get it.

    Ms. Lee. So your testimony with us today is that the efforts to
continue to search and locate those documents is ongoing and you'll be
providing us a rolling production?

    Mr. Darakoglu. Yes.

    Ms. Lee. Okay. So, uh, do we know to a certainty one way or the
other whether there are more documents or is it something that further
investigation and review is required to even make that determination?

    Mr. Darakoglu. I think we can confidently say, or I can
confidently say, that there are more documents. Just to point out one
example, there were nine requests in the original letter that you
referenced. One of them is all documents and communications from
January 1st, 2020 to the present referring or relating to
misinformation, disinformation, or mal- all information. These are
broad scopes. We are working with your staff continually on
prioritization, but yes, I think it's fair to say with with a request
like this, there are more documents out there.

    Ms. Lee. Thank you. My time is expired. Mr. Chairman, I yield
back.

    Mr. Cline. I thank the gentlelady. Ms. Bumpus, as you know, on
March 10th, 2023, the Committee wrote to Chair Khan raising concerns
that the FTC was abusing its authority in investigating Twitter.
Committee requested relevant documents and communications. The Chair
refused to comply voluntarily with the Committee's requests.
Therefore, on April 12th, 2023, the Committee issued a subpoena to
Chair Khan for the relevant information. Notwithstanding that subpoena
and the Committee's subsequent accommodation and follow-up
communications with the FTC, Chair Khan remains non-compliant with the
subpoena. Her justification for failure to produce FTC documents and
yours today are unpersuasive. First, the FTC has produced one
document, a single document in response to the subpoena, correct?

    Mr. Bumpus. I understand we we produced a document at the end of
September.

    Mr. Cline. Are you aware that that document was already publicly
available?

    Mr. Bumpus. Um, yes.

    Mr. Cline. So the document that you produced, the only document
that you produced in response to the subpoena was a publicly available
document. Do you think that that is compliance? Is that under your
definition of compliance?

    Mr. Bumpus. Mr. Chairman, as you know, the request implicates an
active law enforcement investigation. Um, the Commission has provided
several non-public responses, um, and a lengthy and very detailed non-
public briefing.

    Mr. Cline. Not responding to the subpoena.

    Mr. Bumpus. Uh, this is responsive materials to the subpoena. We
have addressed, um, your interests and addressed your concerns through
our non-public responses, written responses, and through the non-
public briefing.

    Mr. Cline. You would not be here if you have addressed, uh, my my
interests and and the needs of this Committee. Do you know Now, you
have said that the FTC has identified custodians who may have
documents responsive, and the FTC has taken steps to preserve
documents responsive to the subpoena, correct?

    Mr. Bumpus. Um, that that that that is my understanding.

    Mr. Cline. Okay. Uh, it's my understanding that the FTC has
deleted former employee documents. Is that correct?

    Mr. Bumpus. I I know that is a concern and I know that it is the
subject of correspondence with, uh, with your committee.

    Mr. Cline. And you can confirm that you have, that the FTC has
deleted former employee documents?

    Mr. Bumpus. Um, I think it is addressed in in our and we addressed
your concerns in our correspondence.

    Mr. Cline. Is that a yes?

    Mr. Bumpus. Um, I I I I believe that, um, that we did, uh, delete,
um, emails of former employees.

    Mr. Cline. Has the FTC taken any steps to preserve documents of
former employees who left the agency during the pendency of this
investigation?

    Mr. Bumpus. Um, my understanding is that we are preserving former
employees', um, emails, and we are seeking to preserve, uh,
appropriate documents.

    Mr. Cline. As you know, Congress can withhold agency funding when
an agency ignores oversight requests, let alone a subpoena. Do you
agree that the FTC's non-compliance with the subpoena should have
significant repercussions for the agency?

    Mr. Bumpus. Um, we are attempting to be responsive in light of the
fact that this is an ongoing—

    Mr. Cline. You're failing to be responsive. You're failing. So,
your stonewalling, your non-compliance today, um, is quite frankly,
insulting to this Committee, and insulting to the American people who
we represent. We expect more from you. It is unfortunate that that you
are here again, because we strive through our committee conversations,
our staff conversations, to actually work behind the scenes to get the
information that we've requested without having to resort to these
hearings. We understand that it takes time from your schedule. We
understand that it takes time from the staff behind you. But the
American people are demanding these documents, are demanding this
information, are demanding accountability, and we are the branch of
government that must ensure compliance, that must ensure that those
executive branch agencies that fail to comply are held accountable.
So, I ask you again, can you confirm that the FTC will comply with the
subpoena and provide the documents requested?

    Mr. Bumpus. We will continue to attempt to meet the Committee's
informational needs consistent with protecting our law enforcement
equities, and we will continue to review our ability to share
additional information.

    Mr. Swalwell. And the FBI has also offered to work with committee
Republicans to prioritize their document request. Is that right?

    Mr. Dunham. That's correct.

    Mr. Swalwell. This included offering in-person review of non-
public documents. Is that right?

    Mr. Cline. All right. Gentleman from California is recognized for
5 minutes.

    Mr. Dunham. That's correct.

    Mr. Swalwell. Have you seen on social media the doxing of what you
would call non-SES, which is like senior-level employees, that the
names of FBI agents and DOJ employees, not by my Republican
colleagues, but by just folks on social media who have doxed and put
out their public information?

    Mr. Swalwell. Having a hard time understanding where all of this
is going. We're in December now, and 92 individuals, many from your
agencies, have come in for secret, non-public, no video recording
interviews, and not a single one of them has come to a public hearing,
has testified publicly about any of the claims that they're making.
And so, after 92 people come in, and we're almost in December, and
nothing has come into public light, that's how you conclude that this
is just an effort to feed the beast, that Donald Trump is not eating,
and that he wants his allies in Congress to just bring in his enemies
and to torment them. And then we see, you can't make this public.
These people don't have anything that add up to what Donald Trump is
alleging, and so we just go through this exercise. It's a little bit
concerning because the FBI isn't tasked with small responsibilities.
You know, they're only in charge of taking on terrorism, public
corruption, child exploitation, white collar crime, fraud, kidnapping.
And instead, they're dealing with this nonsense to just satisfy a
petty, aggrieved former president who has many of my colleagues, as I
said, just working as his chefs. This is a buffet for the former
president to just make him happy. And And the And the greatest example
is Hunter Biden. These guys have literally in this room put up
pictures of non-consensual nudes of Hunter Biden to embarrass the
former to embarrass the current president. That's the length that they
will go. And he says, hey, I'll come in. You can show your pictures.
You can embarrass me. There's not going to be any lines between what
you think I've done and what you think my dad has done, and now they
don't want to do it. It just shows a complete lack of seriousness. I
actually think this Congress is more like the WWE. It's like pro
wrestling, cuz so many of these folks, when the cameras aren't on,
when we're not in the quote-unquote ring, they come up to me, they pay
me and my colleagues compliments. Don't take my word for it. Talk to
Mr. Ivey or anyone else on this committee. They mock the former
president, and you see that in Liz Cheney's book, the number of these
guys who mock the former president. But when the lights and cameras
are on, we're in that ring, they got to take the steel chair, swing it
around because they're doing it on his behalf. And to the American
public, they can't tell the difference, that it's just for
entertainment for these folks. These folks think that the American
public are fans, and that this is just entertaining, and we're
keeping, you know, the chief entertainer, Donald Trump, happy. These
folks aren't fans. They're constituents. They want us to look work on
making health care affordable. They want us to address the global
crisis that could come to America. They want us to have more security
on every corner in in America so that we're safe in our communities.
They want their college to be affordable. They want breathing room in
their personal finances. And so it is a little maddening that you all
are dragged in here for what is really just, as I said, more feeding
of the beast, this pro wrestling exercise where I promise you when
we're not in front of the lights and camera, these guys are going to
roll their eyes at Donald Trump. They don't like him. But they do this
because they need him and his fans to stay in office. And I'm sorry
that the important work that you're doing for all of our constituents,
including their constituents, is affected and delayed and held up
because we have to feed the beast. I yield back.

    Mr. Dunham. I have. And this goes to, uh, uh, one of the areas
where we're a little bit more considerate about where we can provide
information. We are bound by Department of Justice and executive
branch policies, uh, which I mentioned previously. Some of those
policies relate to non-SES employees. Uh, they feel that executives
are best suited to uh, answer questions and, and answer for decisions
that are made under their command, but it's not just about those
policies, it's also about the safety of our employees. Uh, we've had
employees that have been named by congressional committees, that have
come before congressional committees that have experienced uh,
harassment and threats uh, this Congress. It's not lost on me that uh,
a couple of weeks ago, a man in Tennessee was arrested or pleaded
guilty to conspiracy to kill FBI employees who were working on a
January 6th case. We're in a heightened threat environment. Just last
week, the, the website you're referring to, uh, which had uh, non-
public information about our interactions with the committee, uh,
promotes doxing. It's got pictures of FBI employees, it's got uh,
their dates of birth, their addresses, their spouse names. It's
ridiculous. It's unacceptable. Uh, so when I say we're protecting
these employees, it's not an effort to hide the ball. It's to protect
them for their safety, and protect them from these threats and
harassment that they've experienced this year.

    Mr. Swalwell. Thank you, Mr. Dunham. Ms. Bumpus, uh, welcome.
You're also appearing voluntarily today, is that right?

    Mr. Bumpus. That's right.

    Mr. Swalwell. And this is your -- you're a 17-year career FTC
employee, and you've served under four Republican chairs and four
Democratic chairs, is that right?

    Mr. Bumpus. That's right.

    Mr. Swalwell. And the Judiciary Committee only has jurisdiction
over your antitrust work, is that right?

    Mr. Bumpus. Correct.

    Mr. Swalwell. And Ms. Durakoglu, welcome back. Uh, you have
testified, uh, before and you were unanimously confirmed by the United
States Senate, is that right?

    Mr. Darakoglu. That's right.

    Mr. Swalwell. And you are also voluntarily appearing?

    Mr. Darakoglu. Yes.

    Mr. Swalwell. And second time?

    Mr. Darakoglu. Yes.

    Mr. Swalwell. For this committee. And did I hear right that the
State Department has provided more than 1600 total pages responding to
the House's investigation?

    Mr. Darakoglu. It's actually 1900.

    Mr. Swalwell. Okay. So, just like the FBI's, it's going up, uh,

    Mr. Darakoglu. Yes.

    Mr. Swalwell. as we speak. And you have also offered numerous
times, uh, and through meetings, briefings, and correspondence to
Judiciary Committee Republicans, uh, to meet with them and confer
about the documents they want, is that right?

    Mr. Bumpus. Um, my understanding is that we are still producing
documents on a rolling basis. We've produced uh almost 6,000 pages to
date, and we've made eight productions.

    Mr. Van Drew. Okay, but you haven't completed it. Uh do you know
how much remains?

    Mr. Darakoglu. Yes, and we've also provided opportunities to meet
with the Global Engagement Center itself.

    Mr. Bumpus. I do not.

    Mr. Van Drew. Okay. I You know, specific questions were asked
today of you all um by uh Congressman Moran and uh Ms. Lee, uh
Congresswoman Mali Lee. I I would hope that next time when you're and
cuz you're going to be here again that when you come again, you can
answer the specific questions that were asked today. The FTC completed
its review of the documents it as it collected? As it completed its
review? I know the answer is no from what you've told me, correct?

    Mr. Swalwell. What is the purpose of the Global Engagement Center?

    Mr. Darakoglu. The purpose of the Global Engagement Center is to
identify, analyze, and expose foreign disinformation and propaganda.

    Mr. Swalwell. Why is that a problem for us?

    Mr. Darakoglu. Uh, it is a major problem, uh, because a lot of
that foreign disinformation and propaganda often targets the United
States.

    Mr. Swalwell. Does it draw a distinction between the Republican
Party or the Democratic Party when it presents itself?

    Mr. Bumpus. That's correct.

    Mr. Van Drew. When does the FTC expect to complete the full
production of documents in response to the February 14th letter? If
you asked me when I expect at least. We're not even going to lock you
in, but say, "Gee, this is when I expect it would be done. This is
what we believe unless there's something that happens that we don't
anticipate." Can you give me a date, a time frame, any information?

    Mr. Van Drew. Well, thank you. But some some of those um are
duplicative, so when you answer our questions, you're going to be
answering other people's questions. And again, Mr. Moran, Ms. Lee, I,
and I think the chairman, of course, we've all asked specific
questions. Uh there's no reason you can't come back next time, sorry
to say there will be a next time, I believe, it's up to the chairman,
um with specific answers. I thank you for being here today. You're
nice people, and to just real quickly to uh Congressman Swalwell,
sure, I'm going to be nice when I see you. We're all colleagues. We
disagree profoundly to the core and everything that uh we believe, but
nevertheless we're still human beings and you can still like people,
but thoroughly disagree with them. I yield back.

    Mr. Darakoglu. Well, I'm not an expert in disinformation. Um, from
my personal experience, I can tell you that they do not discriminate
between parties.

    Mr. Bumpus. I I'm sorry. I can't. Um, as you know, the committee
has sent us 15 letters. It's made 76 requests. I know this is a
priority. Other oversight committees also believe that their requests
are priorities. We are attempting to meet all of these demands while
continuing to do the work of the agency.

    Mr. Swalwell. Great. Thank you. I yield back.

    Mr. Cline. Gentleman from New Jersey is recognized for five
minutes.

    Mr. Van Drew. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. You know, I had prepared
remarks, but I'm going to go off of them a little bit. I want to speak
about my colleague and friend Eric Swalwell's remarks about feeding
the beast. I can't let it go. You want to know what the beast is? The
beast is the invasion of people's personal rights, their freedoms. And
when it's done by agencies, the beast is even bigger. The beast is the
invasion of their security. The beast is when, when we require, when a
standing subcommittee of the Judiciary Committee requires and requests
documentation over and over again, and we don't get it. And if we
weren't concerned about how much of it we were going to redact, if we
weren't concerned that we didn't want the committee members to know,
perhaps it would move a whole lot faster. This isn't about raw abuse
of politics. Quite frankly, this isn't about Donald Trump or any one
individual person. It's about the misuse of agencies. And we've had an
FBI director who has admitted that it has happened right before this
committee. We've had an attorney general who's admitted it. We have
John Durham who did a report on it. We know it exists. Ben Franklin
said, "Anybody that is willing to give up freedom for security
deserves neither." The beast is $42 million that we spend on a secret
program, uh, for confidential human sources that has hurt good people.
That's the beast. That's the beast that we fear. That's why we have so
much concern. That's why we have so many requests. This is serious
stuff. It's about the very essence of this Republic. So Mr. Dunham,
since the beginning of the Biden administration, our committee has
been actively engaged in overseeing the actions of the FBI, and in
doing so, we have made numerous requests for documents and information
regarding a number of issues regarding the bureau's actions, their
activities, and their operations. And we have continued issues
obtaining said, such documents. We still have the problem. In, in
areas we have gotten particularly little response, I mentioned
confidential human source program which we know has gone awry. We've
proven that numerous times. Even the FBI has admitted it. On September
19th, the committee wrote to 2023 Director Christopher Wray seeking
clarity on the FBI's use of CHSs, despite receiving an estimated $42
million of every man and woman who pays taxes in this country, the
program is pretty much secretive. It's unacceptable to me. It's
unacceptable. What we do know only comes from select testimony. What
we do know comes from the Durham report, both of which were highly
critical of the program. This is not a Republican talking point. It's
not a Jeff Van Drew talking point. It is what we know and have found
out. It is fact. Given these concerns, I have to wonder why the FBI
has not addressed our requests, and more thoroughly. So, and briefly,
because I'm going to run out of time, what steps have the FBI taken so
far to provide the committee with the outstanding information
requested September 19th, 2023 letter? What have they done? Please
bullet it out. Not a long, vague thing. I want to know direct answers.
What steps have you taken?

    Mr. Moran. I'm I'm offended on your behalf for the Sopranos
comment, as a representative of New Jersey.

    Mr. Van Drew. That's right. I didn't even go into that New Jersey
remark. Thank you.

    Mr. Cline. Gentleman from Maryland recognized for 5 minutes.

    Mr. Ivey. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Um, yeah, I'm a little
surprised by the Sopranos comment. Uh seems like the Trump family'd be
a lot closer to the Sopranos than the Biden family, but we'll leave
that to the side for the moment. Um, I I I agree with Congressman Van
Drew with respect to uh Section 702. Um, and I would also note that
not only goes does it go to the heart of protecting the country uh as
we heard from the testimony here from uh Chairman Wray and I believe
from the Attorney General not that long ago, and I heard it in
Homeland Security as well, what's interesting though is that there's
bipartisan legislation pending to address 702, which expires I believe
at the end of December, um and we haven't had a hearing on it. Um, you
know, we we we we keep doing these kinds of hearings, and then these
other kind of hearings where I think they're off on uh tangents about
other things, but, you know, it'd be nice to try and addre- and and by
the way, uh Director Wray testified in Homeland Security there were
four other provisions that are set to expire that he thinks are
important for national security reasons uh that we need to address. No
hearings here in Judiciary. No hearings here on Homeland Security
either with respect to those issues. Um, so I hope since I assume all
of us are interested in national security, um especially of of that
nature, um you know, we can get around to having a hearing on that.
Maybe we can squeeze it in between one of these these uh production
hearings that we keep having. Uh and, you know, with respect to the
legislative purpose issue, you know, we've got pending legislation for
702. I don't know that I've seen any legislation that's come out of
the 11 months of hearings we've been having on these kinds of issues.
Uh so I look forward to that. If there is a legislative purpose, um
let's get to it. Let's get the the legislation out. Uh one other
comment, too. Uh you know, I worked on the Senate Whitewater hearings,
and when I first got there, the Democrats were in the majority. After
that election that came up in '94, I was on the minority staff, but no
matter which side I was on, the two staffs worked together uh to deal
with these kinds of document productions. Matter of fact, before these
subpoenas went out, uh the minority staff, whichever was a Democrat or
Republican, depending on the time, had a chance to review it and raise
concerns or questions about it. So I think the the the subpoena I
mentioned earlier, I think I think we certainly would have raised
concerns about that before it was sent out because, as I said, it was
tremendously overbroad. By the way, it didn't have an end date either.
So when you all say you're going to you have to do rolling
productions, um I guess that's understandable because there's no
deadline for when the you know, the the production is supposed to
terminate, and potentially new documents could have been generated. So
I think you have to be careful about making some sort of date
commitment. And just to mention this as well, in court context, civil
or criminal, uh rolling productions are understood, and so the rules
of discovery and productions are are written in a way that contemplate
the fact that parties produce what you can, but uh there may be
documents that that you find later, certainly in agencies as large as
yours, and the and the number of demands that you're facing from
across all these House committees. Um so I I would I would hope that
we could keep that in mind. But I think at the end of the day, I mean,
I would say this. Uh we have a lot of very urgent matters uh that we
could be addressing, and I I hope that we can get to them. As I
mentioned, there's a hot war going on uh with respect to Hamas. Um I
would note that maybe it was 2 weeks ago that's this bin Laden letter
surfaced um that became viral, and uh you know, one of the things that
we heard in the testimony in the Homeland Security Committee was
there's a sensitivity or concern about uh lone wolf terrorism being
generated here in the United States by these kinds of online outreach
efforts. Um and we know that Hamas and other terrorist organizations
engage in that sort of thing and frankly, they've been successful with
that. We also know from testimony that from the FBI and the Department
of Justice and Homeland Security, that the domestic terrorism threat
is bigger than foreign terrorism threat here in the United States. So
it'd be good if we allowed agencies that are trying to address these
kinds of things, at CISA, at at uh Homeland Security, I think your
agency has GEC has some over- oversight with respect to this, on the
foreign side. Um but these are important times to allow you to do that
work, and tying your hands at a time when I think, well, actually, I
don't have to say I think, the uh FBI Director testified that there's
height- heightened risk of that kind of terrorism taking place, seems
like a bad idea to me, and and puts the American people at risk. So I
would hope that we can get to the point where we're addressing those
kinds of critical issues that have that kind of deadline, and uh do
some of that work here in the committee. And with that, I yield back.

    Mr. Cline. I thank the gentleman. As a fan of WWE, I can assure
him that Congress is is not WWE. But if it is, then this
administration is the equivalent of the Sopranos. Gentleman from New
Jersey's recognized.

    Mr. Van Drew. Thank you, Chairman. Uh, this has been a very
colorful meeting today and, uh, it's part of my personality, I can't
let things go. So let's be clear, this is not about WWE, it's not
about Donald Trump, it's not about any of these things. It's about a
concern—let's really get down to the real essence, the nub of
this—that agencies have information that reveals that there are
problems in some of the things that they did. And this is not far-
fetched. This is not fabricated. This is not something untrue. We
know, for example, that the FBI had a plan to send undercover agents
into traditional Roman Catholic churches. The FBI director apologized
for it, said it was wrong. We know for the truth that there was no
Russian collusion. The Attorney General said that was true. The Durham
report, which was objective, not done by a Republican or a Democrat,
just an objective report, showed that they used confidential sources,
namely Igor Danchenko, who was a bad international actor, and paid him
American tax dollars, and it was all false. Those are just two brief,
small examples. So the reason we're doing this, the reason this is
important is because we are trying to get information that is occurred
within agencies, whether it be the FBI, whether and again, it goes
across the board into many different agencies, the misuse of FISA, by
the way. That's something that a traditional liberal should be
concerned about, the misuse of FISA. Because guess what? Hundreds of
thousands of times they were invading people's personal lives and
getting information on every Jack and Jill in the country. People
don't like that. We're a free country. That's a mark of a totali-
totalitarian country. So, it boils down to those specific facts. We're
being specific here. You guys are busy and you're doing a lot of
important work, I realize that. You're busy, but you're not
forthcoming with the information because I think it I quite frankly,
and I believe this to my very core, there's information there that you
don't want us to know. So the work of this Committee is important
because we need to have that information in order to get to the truth,
and it's good for all of us to know what the truth is. You know, a
trick in politics is to get people's eye off the ball about a feast,
about Donald Trump, about feeding the beast. It's none of that. It's
just that we want speci- and we've been specific. We want specific
information. Turn it over, and you don't have to be here. Guess what?
This whole committee is busy. We don't want to be here, either. But
we're not getting the stuff we need, and we're going to keep doing it
over and over again, and you're probably going to be told over and
over again to do everything you can to talk around it, but we're going
to keep asking the questions cause it is our job, because we want to
keep this a free country. And it really does boil down to that. So, in
any event, Ms. Bumpus, as you know, the committee also wrote the FTC
on February 14th, 2023, requesting documents and communications
related to the FTC's non- non-compete rulemaking. We haven't heard
back in 9 months. I know we're all saying here there's an effort to do
this, but it's been 9 months. Has the FTC completed its collection of
documents? Please just yes or no.

    Mr. Cline. Thank the gentleman. The gentlelady from Florida is
recognized for 5 minutes.

    Ms. Lee. Well, I feel like we need to start here again. There have
been numerous hearings on the subject of FISA and 702. In the crime
subcommittee, we've had two full hearings on that subject. In fact,
the Judiciary Committee and its various subcommittees have hearings
every single week on urgent and important substantive issues. We are
here today because it is also important and significant and meaningful
that when a committee of the United States Congress asks for documents
or information from an agency, that we get a response. It is not
nonsense when the United States Congress requests documents, and that
request is ignored. It is not nonsense when we conduct a hearing to
get compliance with a subpoena or a document request, and we are slow-
walked or we are stonewalled. One of our important functions here is
to ensure that we are providing accountability, oversight, and
transparency for the American people. That is one of the important
functions that we have. And to suggest that the work of this committee
is somehow unimportant or a waste of time is to absolutely miss the
fundamental principle that the role of Congress is to ensure that we
are providing that accountability and transparency. And that is why we
were here. If we received the documents we requested immediately upon
submission of the subpoena, a hearing would be unnecessary. But we
haven't, and so we continue. I'm familiar with the concept of a
rolling production. In fact, I'm a former judge. I'm very familiar
with what happens in the context of document productions and
discovery. The difference is if we were in a courtroom, in a standard
courtroom, and we requested documents and they weren't received by a
deadline, you know what we would do? We would have a contempt hearing.
And if in that instance there still wasn't compliance, there's an
escalating range of sanctions that get imposed by a judge. So we are
here, and we work with you, and we will continue to work with you in
good faith in an effort to find what exists, to do so in a meaningful
and reasonable way, to appreciate your compliance, and to work with
you when there is more that we need. But it is abjectly incorrect to
insinuate that this hearing, that our purpose here today, that our
continued purpose in having these hearings, if it continues to be
necessary, is insignificant. What we are doing here today is the
foundation of providing transparency and accountability, and we will
continue to have these hearings for as long as it takes. Mr. Dunham,
this committee has requested documents from the FBI related to a
couple of different categories that I would like to address with you
here today. One relates to pipe bombs that were placed at the RNC and
the DNC headquarters in January of 2021. The second is documents
related former special agent in charge Charles McGonigal uh and the
alleged politicization of the FBI. So let's begin there. On February
2nd, 2023, the committee wrote a letter to Director Wray requesting
documents and information related to uh the indictment of Mr.
McGonigal, the former special agent in charge. Uh has the FBI searched
for documents responsive to this request?

    Mr. Dunham. We provided a initial uh response earlier this year.
It was a classified response uh providing information about uh
security steps that we took to mitigate national security concerns. As
you're aware, the investigation is still ongoing to the point where
Mr. McGonigal has not been sentenced yet, so there are still some of
those Department of Justice uh considerations that that that we are
bound by, but uh I understand that the the committee has additional
requests for info- -formation and happy to continue to provide
information once the uh the issue is adjudicated, I'm happy to to see
what else we can provide as well.

    Mr. Dunham. Sure. Uh, thank you, Congressman. Uh, so we've we've
provided uh, some information already on this topic. Uh, earlier this
year we provided a a letter in response to the committee that detailed
some information about our CHSs. Uh, we had the assistant director of
our Counterterrorism Division to come up earlier this year and brief
the committee. And uh, he discussed uh, uh, the CHS program a little
bit during that briefing. We had six individuals who were uh, come
before the committee for transcribed interviews who got to this uh,
issue of uh, of CHSs. And we're aware of the committee's additional
uh, requests and we're working through them, and I hope to have
information as quickly as possible.

    Mr. Van Drew. Thank you so much. Let me, because, you know, I'm a
simple guy here, and so I just want a simple yes or no. Can you commit
to providing the committee with the outstanding requests for
information contained in the September 19th by December 14th of this
year? We've been working on it a while. There's no reason that we
can't do this. You say you have a lot of people on it. Can you commit
to that, yes or no?

    Mr. Dunham. I'll commit to providing the information as soon as we
possibly can.

    Mr. Van Drew. Can you do it by December 14th?

    Mr. Dunham. I I I I have to figure out where the information is in
the pipeline.

    Mr. Van Drew. Why Why can't you do it by December 14th? We've This
has been going on for a while.

    Mr. Dunham. I understand that. We've been providing a lot of
responses to the committee. We provided 30 responses this year already
on 16...

    Mr. Van Drew. I can give you a commitment. We want it by December
14th.

    Mr. Dunham. I understand that, and I commit to you that we will
provide it as soon as possible.

    Mr. Van Drew. That's not the answer I wanted. I yield back.

    Mr. Cline. Gentleman from Maryland is recognized for five minutes.

    Mr. Ivey. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Not I this is I'm just getting
increasingly angry as this hearing goes forward. I I think, hey,
there's a Groundhog Day feel to this. Um, and I want to make the
request, um, because, you know, we we have these witnesses come back
that represent different departments over and over again, and there's
a discussion about efforts to comply with the subpoenas, the the
Republicans state their dissatisfaction with that. Um, but in the
process, there's, I would think, communications between the majority
staff and the the departments. Uh, apparently minority staff doesn't
get included in those. I'd like to see those, uh, because, frankly,
when I look at some of these uh, document requests, they're
ridiculously overbroad. I mean, the one here from April 18, 2018,
number one: all documents and communications from January 1, 2020, to
the present referring or relating to the moderation, deletion,
suppression, restriction, or reduce circulation of content, the
development, execution, or application of companies' content
moderation policies. I mean, how many documents are we expecting to
get from-- You know, I I There should be some limitations on a request
that broad. And and I I've got to say this too, and it's a little
broader than the context of this hearing, but the effort to comply
with the Republican requests for documents, uh, and information, has
gone above and beyond. I mean, you know, having Weiss come up here to
testify, uh, in the middle of a prosecution, a federal prosecution
that the Republicans clearly want to have go forward, or I I would
think, um, and then asking him questions that no prosecutor should
ever be asked in the middle of a prosecution. I mean, you never do
that. But the Department of Justice took the extra step and made him
available to come testify. And now, when you didn't like what he said,
now the committee's issued subpoenas to the next layer of of
prosecutors, Ms. Wolf and others. Uh, same thing with the SES, um,
requests, too, uh, you know, which I thought was again over the top.
Uh, you know, it's pretty unusual to have five SES employees come and
testify, uh, but didn't like what they said, I guess, and then you
tried to go and and get lower-level staff to testify. And in doing
that, um, apparently majority staff reached out directly to people who
were represented by counsel uh, at the department, in violation of Bar
Counsel Rule 4.2. Uh, and and you got a letter back from uh, Chair
Khan on that point, which I think is good, but I it's I I think we
need to make sure what we're trying to do here with the committee um,
is use the powers for the right purposes. I mean, you Mr. Chair made a
reference to legislative purpose. I don't know that that the Judiciary
Committee has any jurisdiction over the State Department, really. Um,
and the legislative purpose for some of the things you've requested,
like this stuff about morale at the FTC, ... Uh, I don't really know
what the legislative fix would be for morale issues. And by the way,
as somebody who's been on the opposite end of these kinds of
subpoenas, you want to hurt morale for staff? Have them spend entire
days going through files to turn up documents uh for stuff that's not
relevant to the mission that they're trying to address, cuz you know
what? The State Department's, we've got two hot wars we're in the
middle of right now with respect to Ukraine, uh with respect to Hamas.
There's a lot of other thi- I mean Anthony Blinken, I feel like he's
on a plane somewhere everyday. But we've got instead of them
addressing those kinds of issues, this is what we're talking about.
You know, documents for what is this, um the the the I guess there's
some theory about pipe bombs or you know, uh some kind of fake effort
uh or false flag with respect to the pipe bombs. And I'm looking at
this, the January 6th, I think they've had 800 successful prosecutions
in that case, not one witness, not one case has raised anything about
this. And Homeland Security, we had something about ghost buses where
they're saying that were false FBI agents undercover pretending to be
part of the January 6th invasion, and there's not one piece of
evidence to support it. 800 convictions, pleas, and and and trials.
Nobody's raised this. And if they have a right to get it, you know
it's in a criminal case. Same thing with this confidential human
source stuff. If there's a confidential human source that testifies or
has relevant information in a criminal case, it has to be disclosed.
Where is the evidence of that in the cases that have come forward? I
submit that there's none. I've run out of time. I guess I'll come back
to this on the second range, second round. But I would ask just out of
good faith,

    Ms. Lee. And explain for us if you would, the distinction in what
you will be able to produce prior to adjudication and post-
adjudication, and why?

    Mr. Dunham. I'll have to take that back. I'm not I'll have to talk
with the folks that are closest to this, closest to the case, and see
what information we can provide.

    Ms. Lee. All right, please, if you would. That will be something
that is a subject in a future hearing, should we reconvene on the
subject. With respect to the pipe bomb investigation, what steps has
the Bureau taken so far to provide the committee with outstanding
information that was requested in the June 14th, 2023 letter?

    Mr. Dunham. Sure. So, uh was disappointed that we were we we
offered a briefing a couple weeks ago. We weren't able to make
schedules work. I believe we have a briefing scheduled for December
12th, a couple weeks from now. Uh we have provided an initial response
last Congress on this that went to the the heart of kind of what we've
done so far on the on the case as as best we could. We provided an
updated response this Congress. This is one of those areas where, I
mentioned earlier, we're bound by Department of Justice and executive
branch uh policies where we have considerations we have to make when
things touch on ongoing investigations. The pipe bomb is very much
still ongoing. We've been able to make a significant accommodation for
the committee to get this briefing scheduled. Uh I hope it satisfies a
lot of your questions. I'm I'm I'm I'm we'll be waiting and standing
by for any questions that are not answered uh to take those back and
see how we can accommodate the committee.

    Ms. Lee. Thank you. Mr. Chairman, I yield back.

    Mr. Cline. Thank the gentlelady for her comments, for reminding us
of the tools that were at her disposal, some of which are at our
disposal uh in this body. But uh that concludes today's hearing. As
with hearings we've had over the past year, I'm disappointed in the
answers that have been given, the lack of clarity, and a commitment to
produce the documents that we've requested. And as we near the one-
year anniversary of the establishment of this subcommittee, we have to
consider whether uh additional action must be taken to hold
accountable those offices, those officials who are refusing to comply
and engaging in what is essentially the obstruction of justice.
Without objection, all members will have five legislative days to
submit—

    Mr. Swalwell. Mr. Chairman—

    Mr. Cline. The gentleman is not recognized. Additional written
questions for the witnesses or additional materials for the record.
Without objection, this hearing is adjourned.

    [Adjourned at 103:45 into the recording: Without objection, this
hearing is adjourned.]

    Mr. Swalwell. I I I was just going to ask about the follow-up on
the—
